Welcome to exercise number seven.
In this exercise we will create your balance sheet,
so we can calculate your net worth.
Then in the next exercise, meaning exercise number eight,
we're actually going to analyze your balance sheet.
Then in exercise number nine, we're gonna analyze
your balance sheet and your income statement together,
by looking at formulas based on both of those statements.
And if you ever have question as we go through this,
just let me know please.
So, let's make your balance sheet right now.
So please open up your complete personal finance dashboard,
and go to the exercise called Exercise Seven, Balance Sheet.
At the top here we have the What You Own Category,
meaning assets.
So please enter in the dollar or currency amounts
for everything that you own in this section,
okay right here.
And unlike the income statement,
where we did it on a monthly basis and kind of calculated
what our revenue should be in 12 months
by multiplying by 12 or taking the annual amount
and dividing by 12 months,
on a balance sheet, we don't do this,
because a balance sheet is actually a snapshot in time
of what you own, minus what you owe.
So, please pause me now, and enter in this information now.
Meaning just the assets, or What You Own Section.
And just do the best you can.
And if you need to add more line items,
then please click on the plus option here.
Please don't insert or delete any rows.
And also please enter in optional comments
if you wanted to here.
And if you own a car or a house, enter in the value of it,
if you wanted to sell it right now.
Okay, but don't enter in the mortgage or debt amounts
that you have on a car or a house in the asset section.
So, for example, if you live in a house that is worth
a hundred thousand dollars and you only own half of it,
still enter in a hundred thousand dollars
in the asset section.
Same thing with a car.
Just enter in the amounts that you can sell the car
or house for today, and don't worry about the debt
on your car or your house as we're gonna account for that,
if applicable, in the liability section.
Okay, so please pause me right now
and complete your asset section,
and when you're done, then unpause me,
and it's doesn't have to be perfect, okay.
Just take your time, pause me now to complete
the asset section, thanks.
Okay, welcome back.
Please note that we have your total assets right here,
and every asset you have is expressed as a percent
of your total assets.
And in the long run we want your investment assets,
like stocks or bonds to be a larger percent
of your net worth, and we're gonna discuss investments
in part three of the course.
Now, most people that own a house, have their house
as their largest portion of their net worth.
And I think that owning a house or an apartment
can be the best investment you will ever make,
because spending money on rent for too many years,
is really a waste.
Let's move on.
We're going to go on now to the next section
of the balance sheet here which is What You Owe,
meaning the liabilities,
what you're liable for to pay back.
So, please enter in all the items that you owe,
including the size of the mortgage or loan on your house,
or apartment if applicable.
Also enter in the size of the loan on your car,
if applicable.
Enter in student loans if applicable,
money you owe to other people, credit card debt, etc.
And in addition to entering the amounts,
please enter in optional comments if you want to.
Okay, it's optional.
If you need to add more items, like I mentioned before,
please just click on this plus symbol,
and rename the titles of the other items here,
and please don't add or delete any rows.
Okay, so please pause me now, and complete
the What You Owe section here,
and then unpause me when you're done, thanks.
Okay, welcome back.
Now look at each liability item that you entered
and take note of what each item is as a percent
of what you owe.
And for most people that own a house or an apartment,
their mortgage is their largest liability,
or if you recently graduated, your student loans
could be your largest liability.
And our goal actually, by the end of this course
is to make sure that in the long run,
your investments are by far the largest percent
of your assets and net worth,
and that your debt is very, very small.
Now please scroll down,
and you will see that we now know what your net worth is,
which we will analyze in future exercises,
and which is now updated,
right here on your dashboard summary.
So, your net worth will be materially higher
in the future as we're gonna use saving strategies
that we learned in Part One,
and we'll use the many make money strategies
that we will cover later in Part Three of this course.
And so the next step is to please watch
the next lesson, which is Exercise Eight,
so we can analyze your balance sheets
and your net worth ratios.
And as always, please let me know
if you have any questions.
Thanks.